In this video, we show an example of how
you can use the printf function to print output to the terminal. We have our usual frame for
main as well as a box for output. And the execution arrow
is at the start of main. We begin by declaring and
initializing a to 42. Then we reach a printf call. We're going to print
the string Hello World. It'll just print this string directly,
there are no formats specifies at all. So our output is Hello world. The next printf call
with print the string a. Note that this prints the literal
letter a since it is enclosed in quotation marks and
is therefore a string literal. This has nothing with the variable a. So our output is a. And we return 0 and exit main. What would you do if you wanted to instead
print the value of the variable a? The f in printf stands for formatted, and there are several format specifiers
you can use to format your output. In this example, first we declare and
initialize integers a to 42 and b to 7. Then we reach a printf call
with a format specifier. In this case, %d. %d formats integers as decimal numbers. And you'll learn later about
other format specifiers. %d means printf will look at
the corresponding argument to see what integer format is a decimal number. In this case, it is given variable a. So it prints the decimal representation of the number 42 in the location
in the string where the %d is. The next call to printf has two %ds. The first refers to b, the next argument
after the string which is 7, and the second of these refers to a + b, which
is evaluated like any other expression. So it's 42 + 7 which is 49. So the output is b is 7 and a + b is 49. We return 0 and exit main. Another important thing to know
about printf is escape sequences. An escape sequence
begins with a backslash. The most common one is
\n which means new line. This printf call has two \ns. So you should print two new
lines after Hello World. This statement declares and
initializes b to 7. This printf call has a \t in it
which means a tab, is useful for lining up output. The output is, my answer is tab 7,
we return in exit main. This introduction has shown you a few
uses of the printf function and you'll see more later in the course.