You just read about how everything is
a number, but let's see how this principle applies to some things that may not
seem like numbers at first glance. Strings are numbers, you have seen literal sequences of
characters before, such as Hello World! But did you think about how
the computer stores them as numbers? Each character occupies some
of the computer's memory. We'll talk about exactly how much later,
so you can think of each character
conceptually in a box. In terms of hardware though, the computer
stores each character as a number. You can look up the decimal or hexadecimal
values of different characters in an ASCII table, and you can see the decimal values
of these particular characters here. Of course, the computer stores
them as binary numbers. One fun consequence of computers
storing letters as numbers is that we can do math on them. This principle underlies most
modern methods of cryptography. Another thing that may not seem to
be a number at first is an image, like this one of some flowers. This image is made of
about a million pixels, which each numerically represent
the colors in the image. To see these pixels, let's zoom in
on this small section of the image. Here, you can see the image
magnified several times. You can see how this image looks blocky or
pixelated. This is what the image actually looks
like if you could look that closely. Note that if you try this yourself, you might end up with something
that looks much smoother like this. Most image software will apply algorithms
to smooth out the pixelation when you enlarge an image. You have to turn that off
to see the original pixels. Let us return to our enlarged image that
shows the original pixels more clearly. If we look only at a subset of this image,
and blow it up even further, we can see and talk about
the individual pixels more easily. Here are 16 pixels from the original
image, which had about a million pixels, just to give you an idea of how
much we have zoomed in now. This dark purple pixel has a red
value of 55, a green value of 27, and a blue value of 75. Meanwhile, this golden pixel has
drastically different RGB values, 166, 136, and 41,
giving it an entirely different color. Sound is another important
thing that computers process. As I'm talking, you can see
the waveforms of what I'm saying. The computer encodes these as numbers and
sends them to the sound hardware, which uses them to determine how to move
the speaker generating the desired sound. There are many other types of data you
might want to represent and compute on. You'll learn about data that is
formed from sequences in Course 3. For now, you're going to learn
about structs and typedefs.