In this video we have
an example of nesting. In function f we have a while loop
with an if statement inside of it. And inside of the if statement
there is a for loop. The important thing to remember
with nesting is that there's really nothing special about it. We follow the same rules we've always see. We being with our execution
arrow at the start of main. And the first thing we're going to do is
call f, passing 3 for a, and 8 for b. We create a frame, as always. And we're going to remember
where we're going to return, and begin executing code inside of f. Since a less than b is true, we're going
to go inside the body of the while loop. We print a equals 3, b equals 8. And then we reach an if statement
that checks if a mod 2 is 0. Remember that percent is the mod operator, which computes the remainder
when you do division. 3 divided by 2 has a remainder of 1,
so 3 mod 2 is 1. a mod 2 is not zero, so
this conditional expression is false, and we skip over the if statement. >> a++ increments a to 4,
and b-- decrements b to 7. Now we've reached the end
of the while loop. So we jump to back to the beginning,
and test it's condition again. a less than b is true, so
we enter the body and print a=4, b=7. Now when we look at a mod 2, 4 mod 2 is 0. 0 = 0 is true, so
we enter the if statement. Now we have a for loop. It's going to declare an int i, and
initialize it to the value of a. So we make a box for i,
and set it equal to 4. We then test the condition of the for
loop. 4 less than 7 is true, so
we enter the body of the for loop. We print i = 4. Then we perform the increment
statement assigning 5 to i, and return to the begging of the loop. We check the condition again. 5 less than 7 is true, so we enter the for
loop again, we print i = 5. Then we increment i to 6, and
return to the beginning of the loop. We repeat this process. 6 less than 7, print i = 6. Increment i to 7, and
return to the beginning. This time, 7 less than 7 is false. So we skip past the four loop,
leaving the scope of i. And continue executing. We're now at the end of
the if statement's body, so we resume executing right after it. We increment a to 5 and decrement b to 6,
and now we're at the end of the y loop. So we jumped back to the top. A less than b is still true. So we enter the body, we print a=5, b=6. We check a mod 2. 5 mod 2 is 1, 1=0 is false,
so we skip the if statement. We increment a to 6 and decrement b to 5. And return to the top of the while loop. 6 less than 5 is false. So we skip over the body of the while
loop, reaching the end of the function. This causes us to return to main. The only thing left in main
is the return statement, so we return 0 and exit the program.