In this example, you're going to learn how to execute code with a continue statement in it. Here, we have a for loop that has a continue statement inside. With a for loop, when you execute a continue statement, the loop increment is performed with the continue. To see this, let us first convert this for loop to the equivalent while loop. Here, we've taken one step in the conversion process, moving the variable declaration before the loop. To move this closer to being a while loop, we've moved the increment statement i++ to the end of the loop. But notice that we also put i++ right before the continue statement. Now, we've finished changing this for loop to an equivalent while loop. Since i will go out of scope at the end of the function anyways, we can get rid of the extra curly braces that we wrote here without changing our code's behavior. Now we are ready to begin executing. We begin by calling our printRemainders function, passing in negative two, four and five as parameters. We then declare i and initialize it to lo and reach our while loop. i less than high is true, so we enter the while loop. i equals zero is false, so we skip past the if statement and print five mod negative two is one. We increment i and now have reached the end of the while loop. So, we go back to the top of the loop. i less than hi is true, so we enter the loop body. Again, i is not zero, so we skip the if statement and print out five mod negative one is zero. We increment i and then return to the top of the loop. i less than hi is still true, so we go inside the loop body. However, now i is zero, so we entered the then clause of this if statement. We print that we cannot divide by zero. Increment i and now reach the continue statement. The continue statement just takes us to the start of the loop again, right before we check the loop condition, so we move the execution arrow back here. Now we just do the next loop iteration as you would expect. Since i is one not zero, printing out a message and incrementing i. We do the loop again with i being two, printing out that five mod two is one, and finally, one more time, through the loop with i being three. After this last iteration, i less than hi is false, so we skip the body of the while loop and return from printRemainders. Now, we return from main, exiting the program.