You've learned a lot about thinking through algorithms with the seven steps, the syntax and semantics of C and that everything is a number principle and how it relates to types. We're going to take a moment to underscore the importance of being specific when you write an algorithm. Humans can usually figure out vague instructions because they have common sense. However, computers do not have common sense and only do exactly what you tell them to. When you write an algorithm, you have to carefully think through exactly what to do and be very specific as you write it down. In the next course, we'll delve into turning your algorithm into code as well as compiling and running the code and testing the code to be more confident that it's correct, then debugging it when something goes wrong. However, before we get there, we're going to wrap up this course with you writing an algorithm in English and having one of your fellow Coursera learners execute the algorithm. Of course you will also execute someone else's algorithm and peer review their work. You want to be specific and clear when you do this so that whoever executes your algorithm knows exactly what to do. To underscore the importance of being precise, we're going to have a fun little demonstration of a vague algorithm. Genevieve wrote me an algorithm to make a peanut butter and jelly sandwich and I've forgotten all of my common sense. So, I'm only willing to do exactly what she said. All right, Genevieve. This is pretty basic. I can't imagine what could go wrong. Okay. One, get out one piece of bread. Okay, that seems hard to screw up. So far so good. Two, use a knife to put the peanut butter on it. Okay. This is trickier than you think. I never knew that making a peanut butter sandwich was so difficult. All right. Three, get out another piece of bread. Okay. Four, use the knife to put the jelly on. Okay, she didn't really tell me where to put the jelly on. But I guess if someone told me to like put my clothes on they mean to wear them. So, maybe she wants me to like wear that jelly. Yeah okay. Five, put the two pieces of bread together. All right, do you want me to bite the sandwich?