In this video, we're going to step through
the process of designing an algorithm in the context of the following problem. Here we have a 16x16 grid and we're
interested in drawing a blue rectangle of particular height and width located at
a particular starting x, y location. So to begin with, we'll just look at
a specific instance of this problem. Let's suppose that the starting point
should have the x and y coordinates (7,9). The width of the rectangle should be 8 and
the height of the rectangle should be 4. Now, to do an instance of the problem, we're going to look at our starting
point and simply draw that rectangle. You can assume that you have
some kind of a blue pen and you are just going to draw this
rectangle as the problem specified. Now we need to take a step back and
write down what we just did. The first thing that we did
was start at point (7,9) and draw a horizontal line the length of 8. Next, we draw another horizontal
line of length 8 starting at (7,10). A third horizontal line that
starts one point higher. And finally, a fourth horizontal
line starting at (7,12). Let's step away from the drawing and look at the actual lines we've
written out, describing what we did. You'll notice that this is
a very repetitive process. The only difference in these
four steps is the y coordinate. The y coordinate starts at 9 and
stops at 12. The reason that we start at 9
is because that's the starting y coordinate of our rectangle. The reason we stop at 12 is because we're
interested in drawing a rectangle but has height 4. So, we're going to draw four horizontal
lines stopping at y + height- 1. Now, that we've inspected
these four steps, let's try to write an algorithm
that will generalize them. Recall that we were counting up
from y to the value y + height. Now, this was actually an exclusive y +
height, because we counted 9, 10, 11, 12. We did not actually go all the way
up to 13, which is y+height. We're going to call this number i, and
then for each of those values, we're going to draw a horizontal line of length 8,
starting at the coordinate (7,i). Why are we drawing a line of length 8? That's because it's
the width of the rectangle. So we can go ahead and call this width. This way,
we will be able to use our algorithm for rectangles of different sizes. And why are we starting
at the x location 7? Because that's our beginning x coordinate. So we can call that x. This way our algorithm will
accommodate all values of x. Now this part seems
a little bit complicated. We're going to draw a horizontal line
of length width, starting at (x,i). It's actually fine for this step
to seem a little bit complicated. We'll just call that a different
programming problem. We're going to assume that we
either already know how to draw a horizontal line of length
width starting at (x, i). Or we can solve this as its
own programming problem, beginning with steps 1
through 4 all over again. For this exercise we're just going to
assume we know how to perform this step. The last thing we want to do,is
add a little bit more precision because we wanted the line to be blue. So our algorithm needs to specifically say
that we are drawing a blue line of length width, starting at the location (x,i). Test this algorithm for yourself. Give yourself a value of x, y, a width and a height that you want to test out and
see whether this works for you. As a final note,
some values of x, y, width and height will cause you
to draw off the grid. In this case we're going to assume
that nothing special happens and that doing nothing in response to this,
is the desired behavior. Later on we'll look at ways
of handling errors and corner cases in a more
sophisticated manner.