My name is Ivy. I study at the Duke University
for the MEng program, aka Master of
Engineering program, and I'm studying Electrical
and Computer Engineering. Is a really awesome
experience to be a student in this university
and in this program, and I learn a lot here. For some new programmer, people may think
that programming is totally magic but
actually is not. Everything is following the logic and have to make sense in
the programming world. So first, you need to trust the logic rather than
just think random things. Then also for the programming, planning is something that you have to really take
into consideration. So rather than just put
some random things and pretending you're working
in front of a screen, and typing things
on the keyboard, you actually need to
first make plans, draw pictures, and seriously think about what you need to do. Then puts things implemented actually in
the programming world. Also, in Duke
University especially, the professor and
all their courses is very well planned and designed. So trust all the course project you have to do and
do it step-by-step, you'll finally be
a awesome programmer. There's tons of project I've finished in the whole program. One thing I really
wanted to talk about is the UPS and Amazon project. I've done in the
server-less software class. So basically what's
happening is that one team need to in-charge
of the UPS system, and another team need to be in charge of the Amazon system. We need to design the protocol altogether to make
everything work. This project is very
special for me because it actually mimics what is
happening in the industry life. Because in industry
there's no way you can finish your whole system by
yourself or even by one team. So what is very important is that you
need to learn how to communicate with other team and design their protocol altogether. So during the whole
developing process, we actually need to change
our protocol step-by-step, and finally, get to
the perfect one. The process is
a little bit of painful, but finally we'll put
everything together and find the whole system
work perfectly. It's really good and inside
peaceful and happiness. For those students who are struggling in finding
a job or an interview, I totally understand what
you're feeling right now. I know it is hard, but trust me you'll be flying. I think for the most important
things about finding a job is not about how can
I pass this interview, but how can I be
a great software engineer. To achieve that goal all
you need is to practice, practice, and practice following
all the cross project, and all the advice from all of those professors because
they have their experience, and they know what
the industry world need. Once you get more
and more comfortable to work as a software engineer, the job will just come in to you.